HTML forms
-------------------
In HTML, a form is a collection of elements inside <form>...</form> that allow a visitor to do things like enter text, select options, manipulate objects or controls, and so on, and then send that information back to the server.

Some of these form interface elements - text input or checkboxes - are fairly simple and are built into HTML itself. Others are much more complex; an interface that pops up a date picker or allows you to move a slider or manipulate controls will typically use JavaScript and CSS as well as HTML form <input> elements to achieve these effects.

As well as its <input> elements, a form must specify two things:
    1. where: the URL to which the data corresponding to the user’s input should be returned
    2. how: the HTTP method the data should be returned by

GET and POST
-------------------
GET and POST are the only HTTP methods to use when dealing with forms.

GET, by contrast, bundles the submitted data into a string, and uses this to compose a URL. The URL contains the address where the data must be sent, as well as the data keys and values. You can see this in action if you do a search in the Django documentation, which will produce a URL of the form https://docs.djangoproject.com/search/?q=forms&release=1.

Any request that could be used to change the state of the system - for example, a request that makes changes in the database - should use POST. GET should be used only for requests that do not affect the state of the system.

GET would also be unsuitable for a password form,
POST, coupled with other protections like Django’s CSRF protection offers more control over access.


Django’s role in forms
-------------------
Django handles three distinct parts of the work involved in forms:
    1. preparing and restructuring data to make it ready for rendering
    2. creating HTML forms for the data
    3. receiving and processing submitted forms and data from the client

The Django Form class
-------------------
    a Form class describes a form and determines how it works and appears.
